3. Explain, at a fundamental level, the technologies involved, and the steps required initialize a SSL connection between a browser and
   a server and how to use SSL in a secure way.

The steps required initialize a SSL connection between a browser and a server:

1.	The browser will Request the web server identify itself.
2.	This prompts the web server to send the browser a copy of the SSL Certificate.
3.	The browser checks to see if the SSL Certificate is trusted.
4.	If the SSL Certificate is trusted, then the browser sends a message to the Web server.
5.	The server then responds to the browser with a digitally signed acknowledgement to start an SSLencrypted session. This allows
    encrypted data to be shared between the browser and the server. You may notice that your browsing session now starts with https
    (and not http).

*Another ex. https://www.digicert.com/ssl.htm

How to use SSL in a secure way:

Using the Default WebLogic Server Host Name Verifier
As a function of the SSL handshake, WebLogic Server compares the common name in the SubjectDN in the SSL server's digital certificate with
the host name of the SSL server used to accept the SSL connection. If these names do not match exactly, the SSL connection is dropped.
The SSL client is the actual party that drops the SSL connection if the names do not match.
If anything other than the default behavior is desired, either turn off host name verification or configure a custom host name verifier.
Turning off host name verification leaves WebLogic Server vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks. Oracle recommends leaving host name
verification on in production environments.
If you are using the default WebLogic Server host name verifier, host name verification passes if both of the following conditions exist:
•	The host name in the certificate matches the local machine's host name.
•	The URL specifies localhost, 127.0.01, or the default IP address of the local machine.

Links:
http://docs.oracle.com/cd/E28280_01/web.1111/e13707/ssl.htm#SECMG571
http://www.webopedia.com/TERM/S/SSL.html
